# hangeul4ETI
<A Interstellar Message Written in Hangeul> is a new interstellar message designed to communicate with extraterrestrial civilizations that utilize radio communication. In particular, this message is the first Interstellar message to apply Korean characters, Hangeul, and grammar as an attempt to deliver the Earth's natural language to extraterrestrial intelligence. This is an effort to more systematically convey information about the language of the Earth towards the unknown, and at the same time emphasize the importance of reflecting the diversity of languages and characters on the planet, including Hangeul and Korean, in designing interstellar messages.

The overall structure of this message is based on <Cosmic Call> in 1999 and 2003, but the overall contents have been revised and new contents have been added. Above all, this message is significant as the first attempt to combine the prior interstellar message, which was studied mainly on the expression of the Latin alphabet and mathematical symbols, with the Earth's natural language.

In particular, this message excludes the use of Chinese character, Hanja, expressions, which occupy a large portion of modern Korean, and applies newly designed pure Korean expressions. Most of the mathematics and scientific terms used in Korea use Hanja expressions, but the pure Korean expressions used in this message conveys the meaning of the term more easily and clearly than Hanja expressions. As a result, it effectively reflects the advantages of Hangul characters. Some proper nouns and units should be written based on the modern Korean notation and the International System of Units.

This message was designed in a way to define the mathematical and scientific concepts step by step. In other words, It is composed of a structure that allows you to understand the next content if you understand the previous content. By following this message step by step in order, extraterrestrial scientists and linguists can understand the meaning of messages.

As expressed by Dr. Yvan Dutil, who designed <Cosmic Call>, this message is “Interstellar Rosetta Stone” written in Korean that contains brief and essential information about the knowledge and language of the Earth. Above all, in the last paragraph of this message, there is a one sentence that reflects our human beings. This last sentence is the message from humanity to outer space, and at the same time, it is the message directed to ourselves.

The website of <A Interstellar Message Written in Hangeul> was first released on Hangeul Day on October 9, 2020. In addition, the <A Interstellar Message Written in Hangeul> was simultaneously produced as an audiovisual installation and exhibited at the National Library of Korea and Hyundai Motor Group’s ZER01NE Studio in 2020.
